Update Intro_DS.mdx to include Doubly-Linked lists (#2008)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: content/2_Bronze/Intro_DS.mdx

dynamic arrays (e.g. `vector<vector<int>>`) static arrays of dynamic arrays
(e.g. `array<vector<int>,5>`), dynamic arrays of static arrays (e.g.
`vector<array<int,5>>`), and so on.
	

> An alternative for variable-length arrays are "doubly-linked lists." They are implemented by "linking" or pointing each element to the element before and after it. We recommend you look at [this Wikipedia article](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Doubly_linked_list) for more information. These support O(1) insertion and removal, if you have access to the pointer of the element before hand.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An alternative for variable-length arrays are "doubly-linked lists." They are implemented by "linking" or pointing each element to the element before and after it. We recommend you look at [this Wikipedia article](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Doubly_linked_list) for more information. These support $\mathcal{O}(1)$ insertion and removal, if you have access to the pointer of the element beforehand.
```
i think this is one word right 👀

Author: Yeah, it is

(e.g. `array<vector<int>,5>`), dynamic arrays of static arrays (e.g.
`vector<array<int,5>>`), and so on.

## Doubly-Linked Lists
	

> Another type of datastructure is a "doubly-linked list." They are implemented by "linking" or pointing each element to the element before and after it. We recommend you look at [this Wikipedia article](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Doubly_linked_list) for more information. These support $\mathcal{O}(1)$ insertion and removal if you have access to the iterator of the element to insert before or remove beforehand.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another data structure is a "doubly-linked list." They are implemented by "linking" or pointing each element to the element before and after it. We recommend you look at [this Wikipedia article](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Doubly_linked_list) for more information. These support $\mathcal{O}(1)$ insertion and removal if you have access to the iterator of the element to insert before or remove beforehand.
```

(e.g. `array<vector<int>,5>`), dynamic arrays of static arrays (e.g.
`vector<array<int,5>>`), and so on.

> ## Doubly-Linked Lists

Reviewer 2: are there any problems in silver or below where this would be useful? if not maybe we should leave it out (and just link to the `std::list` documentation)

Author: There are old bronze problems which can be solved (I don't have the link but remember doing one) which used it.

Reviewer 2: er, I don't think we should add this w/o an example

Reviewer 2: why resolved?

Author: https://www.cs.hmc.edu/ACM/Problems/Fall12/mooo.txt

This one can be solved with Doubly Linked Lists. I don't think there is a POJ

> An alternative for variable-length arrays are "doubly-linked lists." They are implemented by "linking" or pointing each element to the element before and after it. We recommend you look at [this Wikipedia article](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Doubly_linked_list) for more information. These support $\mathcal{O}(1)$ insertion and removal if you have access to the pointer of the element beforehand.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An alternative for variable-length arrays are "doubly-linked lists." They are implemented by "linking" or pointing each element to the element before and after it. We recommend you look at [this Wikipedia article](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Doubly_linked_list) for more information. These support $\mathcal{O}(1)$ insertion and removal if you have access to the iterator of the element to insert after or remove beforehand.
```

> An alternative for variable-length arrays are "doubly-linked lists." They are implemented by "linking" or pointing each element to the element before and after it. We recommend you look at [this Wikipedia article](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Doubly_linked_list) for more information. These support $\mathcal{O}(1)$ insertion and removal, if you have access to the pointer of the element beforehand.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
An alternative for variable-length arrays are "doubly-linked lists." They are implemented by "linking" or pointing each element to the element before and after it. We recommend you look at [this Wikipedia article](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Doubly_linked_list) for more information. These support $\mathcal{O}(1)$ insertion and removal if you have access to the pointer of the element beforehand.
```

	
<Warning>

> 	Doubly-Linked lists cannot be accessed by indexes. This is a major reason why they are not used, as opposed to vectors or regular arrays.

Reviewer 2: > Doubly-Linked lists cannot be accessed by indexes. This is a major reason why they are not used, as opposed to vectors or regular arrays.

then why are they an alternative?

Author: Fixed that.

</Warning>
	
The C++ object for a doubly-linked list is the `list` object.

```cpp
list<int> li
```

> Alternatively, you could implement such a list on your own:

Reviewer 2: I don't think pointers are ever mentioned before this (aside from the note that they are not the same as iterators).

Author: I was asked to show an implementation with pointers by @ar492

Reviewer 2: but readers don't necessarily know what a pointer is at this point? at least link to https://www.learncpp.com/cpp-tutorial/introduction-to-pointers/ or something

Author: Hm. Ask @ar492

> ```cpp

Reviewer 2: one code block

struct Node {
    int value = NULL;
    Node *prev = NULL;
    Node *next = NULL;
};

void insert(Node* node, int value) {
    struct Node* new_node = new Node;
    new_node->value = value;
    new_node->next = node->next;
    new_node->prev = node;
    node->next = new_node;
    if (new_node->next != NULL) new_node->next->prev = new_node;
}

void remove(Node* node) {
    if (node->prev != NULL) node->prev->next = node->next;
    if (node->next != NULL) node->next->prev = node->prev;
}
```
A sample implementation of this is provided below:

> ```cpp

Reviewer 2: two code blocks

Reviewer 2: (why not merge this with the one above?)

int main() {
    Node* start = new Node;
    start->value = 5;
	
    insert(start, 6);
    Node* next = start->next;
	
    insert(next, 7);
    next = next->next;
	
    insert(next, 8);
	
    remove(next);
	
    Node* cur = start;
    while (cur != NULL) {
        cout << cur->value << endl;
        cur = cur->next;
    }

    // Infinite Loop
    next = next->next;
    next->next = start;
	
    cur = start;
    while (cur != NULL) {
        cout << cur->value << endl;
        cur = cur->next;
    }
}

> ```

Reviewer 2: why not just have one code block? plus, indentation should be tabs

```cpp
struct Node {
	int value;
	Node *prev = NULL;
	Node *next = NULL;
	Node(int _value): value(_value){}
};

void insert(Node* node, int value) {
	Node* new_node = new Node(value);
	new_node->next = node->next;
	new_node->prev = node;
	node->next = new_node;
	if (new_node->next != NULL) new_node->next->prev = new_node;
}
void remove(Node* node) {
	if (node->prev != NULL) node->prev->next = node->next;
	if (node->next != NULL) node->next->prev = node->prev;
}

int main() {
	Node* start = new Node(5);
	
	insert(start, 6);
	Node* next = start->next;
	
	insert(next, 7);
	next = next->next;
	
	insert(next, 8);
	
	remove(next);
	
	Node* cur = start;
	while (cur != NULL) {
		cout << cur->value << endl;
		cur = cur->next;
	}
	// Infinite Loop
	next = next->next;
	next->next = start;
	
	cur = start;
	while (cur != NULL) {
		cout << cur->value << endl;
		cur = cur->next;
	}
}
```

Author: Don't know what you mean by one code block. Turned them into tabs

Reviewer 2: indentation is still broken

Author: Alright should be fixed

> Notice how you can create infinite loops with doubly-linked lists. Doubly-linked lists can be used to represent functional graphs. You can read more about functional graphs [here.](https://usaco.guide/silver/func-graphs)

Reviewer 2: I still don't know what this means. presumably, if you mess up the pointers you'll get an infinite loop when you try to traverse such a list, but why would you purposely do this.

Author: Cycle Detection Algorithms for finding Cycles in functional graphs

Reviewer 2: why wouldn't you use an array to represent a functional graph??

Author: I guess you could. But this makes more intuitive sense. And if there is a cycle, you would never know with an array.

Reviewer 2: What do you mean by intuitive sense? Using a doubly-linked list for a functional graph makes no sense whatsoever, and using a singly linked list is equivalent to an array??

> And if there is a cycle, you would never know with an array.

???

Author: If there is a cycle in the graph, an array would not be able to represent that. The values might be duplicated, but that doesn't imply a cycle. For example, an array would represent:

1-2-3-1

While a doubly-linked list would represent

a(1)-b(2)-c(3)-a(1)

However, the doubly linked list could also be

a(1)-b(2)-c(3)-d(1)

and the array would be the same. One has a cycle, the other doesnt

Author: I meant successor graphs, not functional graphs. And sometimes it can be useful to have a reversed edge, right?

Reviewer 2: er, I'm assuming you have a functional graph where vertices are represented by numbers, not letters. Also, not all functional graphs are cycles.

Reviewer 2: successor graphs are the same thing as functional graphs

Author: Hm I think I understand what you are saying. An array might work, but I still feel like we should keep this in.

Reviewer 2: What do you mean by "might?" It *will* work. 

I still don't quite understand what your representation is. Could you provide an example problem and code where using a linked list to represent a functional graph would be helpful?

Author: See the problem above. It can be used to solve the problem.

Reviewer 2: code?

Reviewer 2: what does it have to do w/ functional graphs?

Author: Oh wait yeah nvm sorry. I don't have one then.

> Notice how you can create infinite loops with doubly-linked lists. In fact, doubly-linked lists are a great way to represent functional graphs. You can read more about functional graphs [here.](https://usaco.guide/silver/func-graphs)

Reviewer 2: > In fact, doubly-linked lists are a great way to represent functional graphs.

why?

Author: I was asked to put that. But they are a great way because FGs have only 1 outgoing edge.

`vector<array<int,5>>`), and so on.

> <!-- Usually, the choice between a static array and a dynamic array is just personal preference. -->

Reviewer 4: wait why is this commented out lol

Author: I don't know it was commented out before hand

Reviewer 4: @maggie-j-liu think you can answer?

Reviewer: uhh wasn't me that commented it out, according to git blame it was @bqi343

Reviewer 2: I don't see how including this line adds any value.

Reviewer 4: then delete it?

Reviewer 2: sure you can if you want to

Author: Ok, Deleted it

	
An alternative for variable-length arrays are "doubly-linked lists." They are implemented by "linking" or pointing each element to the element before and after it. We recommend you look at [this Wikipedia article](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Doubly_linked_list) for more information. These support O(1) insertion and removal, if you have access to the pointer of the element before hand.
	
<Warning>

> 	Doubly-Linked lists cannot be accessed by indexes. This is a major reason why they are not used, as opposed to vectors or regular arrays

Reviewer 4: period @ end

Author: Done

</Warning>
	
The C++ object for a doubly-linked list is the `list` object.

```cpp

> list<int> li

Reviewer 4: does this only exist in c++
even if it does wrap it in a `<LanguageSection>`

Author: The entire thing is in a CPP Section

Reviewer 4: oh sorry, the git diff is kinda weird

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
list<int> li;
```
